---
layout: post
title: Week 1 (Jan 21)
---

Welcome to STA 371H! Today we will review the syllabus and course structure, and get our first introduciton to R and RStudio. We won't cover everything on the syllabus in detail, so please make sure you read it over this week. It's posted to Canvas and linked under the About and Resources sections of this webpage.

These "Week X" posts will outline my plans for the current week, provide materials we use in class, and assign material to get you ready for next week. I will also use them to assign exercises to hand in.

## Materials used in class this week

[Slides](../files/week1.pdf)

[R code](../files/week1.R)

## Additional readings for this week 

To supplement the discussion in class, review pages 211 - 216 of DSGI. These depend only weakly on the material at the beginning of Chapter 10, which is optional.

## Readings to do for next week

Next week we will cover material from Chapters 11 (on Monday, possibly trailing into Wednesday) and 12 (Wednesday) in DSGI. Please make sure you have read through Chapter 11 by Monday.

## Exercises 1 (Due Wednesday Jan 29 in class):

1. Complete the following walkthroughs to get R/RStudio installed on your machine:

	- [Installing R and RStudio](https://github.com/jaredsmurray/learnR/blob/master/basics/installing_R.md): This should get you up and running with R and RStudio.
	- [Installing packages in RStudio](https://github.com/jaredsmurray/learnR/blob/master/basics/installing_library.md): R is more than a single software program; it has the ability to access a central repository of "packages" that add new functionality to R. As of this writing there are over 10,000 R packages in this repository! We will use the mosaic package throughout the semester, so go ahead and install that package following this tutorial.
	- [Getting familiar with R](https://github.com/jaredsmurray/learnR/blob/master/heights/heights.md): A quick demo to help get you started in R.

	Finally, download the R script above that I used in class and run it yourself. You do not need to hand anything in here.

2. Read this post from FiveThirtyEight, about how they "check their work" (i.e., verify that their probabilistic forecasts are accurate and well-calibrated):

	[How Good Are FiveThirtyEight Forecasts?](https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/checking-our-work/)

	Answer the questions below:

	  a. Describe in your own words how a calibration plot is constructed. (The example calibration plot on that page is the one entitled "MLB games, 2016-2018")

	  b. Why is a calibration plot a more meaningful assessment of a forecaster than simply checking whether the forecaster's prediction of the most likely outcome actually occurred?

	  c. Using the dropdown list just under the title of the post, pick a forecast category and check out its calibration plot. From the calibration plot, does FiveThirtyEight seem to be doing a good job forecasting these kinds of events? Include a printout or screenshot of the calibration plot you examined.